1. download eksctl command and run the below command to create eks cluster.
   eksctl.exe create cluster --name test-k8s --version 1.17 --ssh-access --ssh-public-key=jj --region us-east-1 --nodegroup-name linux-node --node-type t2.micro --nodes 2
   a. if you want to connect to worker nodes, you need to mention public key in the command
   b. by default ekscli command will consider id_rsa.pub key to ssh to worker nodes.
   c. explicitly need to mention to have ssh access, otherwise the default value it consider is false
2. with config file also we can able to create cluster
   eksctl create cluster --config-file=create-cluster.json
3. to get config file which is defualt file considered by eksctl command, to get default config file run below command
   eksctl create cluster --name development --managed --dry-run
   eksctl create cluster --name development --dry-run
4. eks cluster created with 2 public and 2 private subnets
5. eks cluster gets created by cloud formation template in the backend.
6. 4 security groups get created, 
    a. control plane sg - these rules allows to make api reuqest to cluster, 443
    b. node group sg - workers node to communicate, worker nodes to communicate control plane , ports - 1025 - 65535, 443, 22
    c. cluster shared node  sg - unmanaged, managed node to communicate, all nodes to communicate each
    b. cluster sg - allow unmanged nodes to comunicate control plane
 7. ekscli save eks config file under ./kube/config of user home directory, which allows to run kubectl commands
 8. worker node will have access to ecr with iam role, so image can be pulled to node easily.
 9. jenkins to eks integration is done by  copying kube config file under jenkins home directory and installing kubectl command, 
    and giving path of kubectl command in jenkins configure system under environemnt variable session.
 10. by default eks supports clasic load balancer, when we deploy a service a load balancer type.
 11. to provide external access to multiple services running inside eks cluster by ingres controller, find below link to enable it. 
     becuase we can not allow for each service an load balancer.
       https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/eks-access-kubernetes-services/
 12. ekscli created natgatway also - need to check on this.
 13. it create all resorces with tag , so easily to identify the resources belog to a specific cluster.
 14. control plane iam role and node group iam role required. 

   
   
